Failure will happen.
Someone will update your production infrastructure
thinking they are working in your development environment,
or someone will forget to pay a bill and some component of your system will go down.
Things fail all the time,
expect things to fail,
and be prepared to handle the situation when they do.
You need to understand why something has failed before you can fix it.
Finding the cause of an issue starts when you're designing and architecting a system.
Making systems observable and debuggable
is important for running and diagnosing systems later.
Some things simple to find,
especially if you have setup thorough alerts.
If you get an alert saying that your database has run out of disk space,
you should look to see if the disc consumption patterns are normal.
If so you can probably add more disc space and go back to sleep.
Other problems are harder to track down.
You usually want to start at a high level and look for areas of suspicion.
For example, if you get the same alert,
your database being out of disk space.
But your normal usage pattern shows that you should have
three more months of runway before you would need to add disk space.
You'll need to dig deeper to find out what happened.
Your first clue is that the database is out of space.
From there, you can use the CloudWatch metrics to look at
your historical usage and determine if there has been a sharp increase in that usage.
Why? What changed?
Deployment release notes,
application logs, platform changes are all things to look at.
Understanding what has changed is the key to finding the root cause.
What are things that could change?
When investigating the cause of issues,
look to all sources of information.
Understand what changes your company has made.
Look to your logs to see what your applications are telling you.
Look at services like CloudTrail to see
a complete history of what has gone on with your AWS account.
Who has changed what,
and could it have anything to do with what has gone wrong?
Did your company make a change that coincides with the issue starting,
this is a good sign that you should look internally.
Did a third party vendor make a change?
Make sure that you know what your dependencies are.
How to identify if they're having issues and who to contact to ask to restore service.
Time is another element that can break your system.
Over time, things expire.
SSL certificates and licenses are good examples.
These can also be hard to track down and can take time to fix.
So being diligent about keeping tabs on things that expire is imperative.
The second part of the process is to fix the issue.
Once you understand what has gone wrong,
then you can fix the issue.
This is where your planning documentation and backup plans really matter.
Again, you'll use monitoring to ensure that you have fixed the issue.
As things return to normal,
your monitoring information will confirm things are back on
track and your alerting system should start to turn green.